The data are stored in a folder called 'RawData'. The folder contains

    README.txt with a full description of the data
    activity_labels.txt with labels for the different activity categories which are encoded with a number
    two folders:
        Train
        Test 

Both Train and Test folder contains text files with raw sensor signals. The Train folder also contains a file names labels_train.txt that specifies which segments of the signals correspond to which activities.
The dataset consists of

    Files with Inertial sensor data: Raw triaxial signals from the accelerometer and gyroscope of all the trials with with participants.
    A file with labels of all the performed activities.

The dataset includes the following files:

    'README.txt'

    'RawData/Train/acc_expXX_userYY.txt': The raw triaxial acceleration signal for the experiment number XX and associated to the user number YY. Every row is one acceleration sample (three axis) captured at a frequency of 50Hz.

    'RawData/Train/gyro_expXX_userYY.txt': The raw triaxial angular speed signal for the experiment number XX and associated to the user number YY. Every row is one angular velocity sample (three axis) captured at a frequency of 50Hz.

    'RawData/labels.txt': include all the activity labels available for the dataset (1 per row). Column 1: experiment number ID, Column 2: user number ID, Column 3: activity number ID Column 4: Label start point (in number of signal log samples (recorded at 50Hz)) Column 5: Label end point (in number of signal log samples)

Notes:

    The units used for the accelerations (total and body) are 'g's (gravity of earth -> 9.80665 m/sec²).
    The gyroscope units are rad/sec.
    A video of the experiment including an example of the 6 recorded activities with one of the participants can be seen in the following link: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XOEN9W05_4A

License:

Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the following publications

    Jorge-L. Reyes-Ortiz, Luca Oneto, Albert Sam‡, Xavier Parra, Davide Anguita. Transition-Aware Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones. Neurocomputing. Springer 2015.

This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.
Other Related Publications:

    Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. A Public Domain Dataset for Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones. 21th European Symposium on Artificial Neural Networks, Computational Intelligence and Machine Learning, ESANN 2013. Bruges, Belgium 24-26 April 2013.

    Jorge-Luis Reyes-Ortiz, Luca Oneto, Alessandro Ghio, Albert Sam·, Davide Anguita and Xavier Parra. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones With Awareness of Basic Activities and Postural Transitions. Artificial Neural Networks and Machine Learning ñ ICANN 2014. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer. 2014.

    Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra, Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Energy Efficient Smartphone-Based Activity Recognition using Fixed-Point Arithmetic. Journal of Universal Computer Science. Special Issue in Ambient Assisted Living: Home Care. Volume 19, Issue 9. May 2013

    Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. 4th International Workshop of Ambient Assited Living, IWAAL 2012, Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain, December 3-5, 2012. Proceedings. Lecture Notes in Computer Science 2012, pp 216-223.

    Jorge Luis Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Xavier Parra-Llanas, Davide Anguita, Joan Cabestany, Andreu Catal‡. Human Activity and Motion Disorder Recognition: Towards Smarter Interactive Cognitive Environments. 21th European Symposium on Artificial Neural Networks, Computational Intelligence and Machine Learning, ESANN 2013. Bruges, Belgium 24-26 April 2013.

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita and Xavier Parra. July 2015.

Adapted Aug 2018 for BDA, University of Amsterdam
